Update README for prototype2 (#554)
kcp-dev/kcp: README.md

> # `kcp` is a control plane for applications running across multiple Kubernetes clusters

Reviewer: I just saw a very interesting and informative presentation from @sttts , and got a little different take-away.  The message I got is that kcp is first and foremost about hosting many workspaces, and secondarily the "workload service" (something that schedules workload described in a kcp workspace onto some set of compute clusters --- if I understood correctly) is expected to be the killer app that draws in usage.  If this split is really right, I think the README should make it really clear.  I myself am working on problems that are much more concerned with control plane issues than scheduling compute.

Reviewer 2: The slogan here now might be misunderstood as federation. Maybe a better term is "... for applications whose workloads are distributed over multiple attache Kubernetes clusters" or something like that. Distributed rather than running.

Author: Thanks for your feedback! This wording was a suggestion from Clayton. I'm going to make some minor edits, and future revisions can come in future PRs

> # `kcp` is a control plane for applications running across multiple Kubernetes clusters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# `kcp` is a highly multi-tenant control plane for applications with attachable Kubernetes clusters as compute
```

Reviewer 3: Hrm, I liked some of your earlier wording better.

> kcp is a multi-tenant control plane for applications distributed across Kubernetes clusters and clouds

maybe

Author: Went with something slightly different

![build status badge](https://github.com/kcp-dev/kcp/actions/workflows/ci.yaml/badge.svg)

> `kcp` is a generic [CustomResourceDefinition](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/) (CRD) apiserver. By default, `kcp` only knows about:

Reviewer: I would talk about logical clusters right up front here.

BTW, to me, the term "logical cluster" is a bit of a misdirection because it focuses on the "cluster", which primarily brings compute to mind.  If I understand correctly, however, the "logical cluster" concept is about virtualizing the api service.  Or, a little more concretely and clearly, introducing a higher level of division/grouping above namespace.  Perhaps terms like "logical api service" or "virtual api service" or "higher level namespace" would be more on point.

Author: Updated

> # `kcp` is a minimal Kubernetes API server (and more!)

Reviewer 3: Is the expectation that we didn't change this to better blurb what we are because we're waiting for p3 to get there?

Reviewer 3: > kcp is a control plane for applications running across multiple Kubernetes clusters

Might be more accurate at this point.

I don't know that the "how minimal" is really helping anymore - we're not minimal, we're focused on solving the two problems described below.

Author: I wanted to come back to this. I agree w/your comments. I mostly was writing up something quickly before I had to step out for a little while 😄

> # `kcp` provides a Kubernetes-like control plane with true multitenancy, with flexible compute powered by real Kubernetes clusters.

Reviewer 2: :+1:

> # `kcp` provides a Kubernetes-like control plane with true multitenancy, with flexible compute powered by real Kubernetes clusters.

Reviewer 3: Ok, probably too long:

> kcp provides a true multi-tenant Kubernetes control plane for workloads that span clusters

Author: I'm inclined to leave this alone for the time being until we truly can create a workload and have it span multiple clusters, which we can't do (automatically) today. WDYT?

Reviewer 3: We don't need it to span inherently to claim spanning.  We're saying "workloads that span clusters" which is technically true.

And the concern "we don't have it yet" can be an asterisk / clarification down below - since we have to describe current state, future state, and connection anyway.

Author: Ok, updated the headline in #576

![build status badge](https://github.com/kcp-dev/kcp/actions/workflows/ci.yaml/badge.svg)

> `kcp` is a generic [CustomResourceDefinition](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/) (CRD) apiserver that is divided into multiple "[logical clusters](docs/investigations/logical-clusters.md)" that enable multitenancy of cluster-scoped resources such as CRDs and Namespaces. Each logical cluster is independent: the available APIs and data are separate from one logical cluster to another.

Reviewer 3: This is good - the last sentence though is possibly better structured into being a benefit

> Each of these logical clusters is fully isolated from the others, allowing different teams, workloads, and use cases to live side by side.

Author: #554

- [`CustomResourceDefinition`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/)s, to define new types
- a handful of other low-level resources like [`Lease`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/cluster-resources/lease-v1/)s, [`Event`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/debug-application-introspection/)s, etc.

![kubectl api-resources showing kcp's API resources](./docs/images/kubectl-api-resources.png)

> Any other resources, including standard Kubernetes resources like [`Deployment`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/)s and the rest, can be added as CRDs and optionally reconciled using the standard controllers launched against the `kcp` API, or via two-way replication into a Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 3: "Two-way replication" may not be clear enough.

> ... can be added as CRDs and be replicated onto one or more Kubernetes clusters.

Author: #554

## Why would I want that?

Kubernetes is mainly known as a container orchestration platform today, but we believe it can be even more.

> With the power of CRDs, Kubernetes provides a flexible platform for declarative APIs of _all types_, and the reconciliation pattern common to Kubernetes controllers is a powerful tool in building robust, expressive systems.

Reviewer 3: I think we need one more sentence in here.  This is a pitch for generic control plane (and the next three sentences).  You also need to pitch the key hook from today somewhere (i'm not sure exactly which line, but it's important):

> Imagine a declarative ... [unchanged]

> But a control plane without any workloads isn't very compelling - so we want to uplevel the majority of Kubernetes applications today by allowing them to move and spread across clusters without changing a line of YAML.  We believe moving a workload between clusters should be as easy as moving a pod between nodes.

> Take a multi-tenant control plane for everything, and add to it most of the world's cloud-native workloads happily cruising across clouds, datacenters, and out to the edge?

> That's **`kcp`**.

Author: Added to #576

Like vanilla Kubernetes, `kcp` persists these resources in etcd for durable storage.

> Any other resources, including standard Kubernetes resources like [`Deployment`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/)s and the rest, can be added as [CustomResourceDefinition](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/)s (CRDs) and optionally reconciled using the standard controllers launched against the kcp API, or via two-way replication into a Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 3: The previous sentence about etcd can probably be changed now - I don't know that etcd is an important detail anymore, but we do want to connect the pedigree to Kubernetes and imply that this is refining down the core control plane part (kube-apiserver or w/e) in order to accomplish <reason>.

That's **`kcp`**.

## Can I start using `kcp` today?

Yes! This work is still in early development, which means it's _not ready for production_ and _APIs, commands, flags, etc. are subject to change_, but also that your feedback can have a big impact. Please try it out and [let us know](#this-sounds-cool-and-i-want-to-help) what you like, dislike, what works, what doesn't, etc.

`kcp` is currently a prototype, not a project. We're exploring these ideas here to try them out, experiment, and bounce them off each other.

## Can `kcp` do anything else?

Yes! Here are a few of our top-level goals:

### Host thousands (*) of small-ish Kubernetes-like [logical clusters](docs/investigations/logical-clusters.md) in a single instance

> * Orders of magnitude smaller than a typical large, shared, multi-tenant cluster (~50 resources per cluster)

Reviewer: What is being quantified as ca 50 resources?  Is it the resource cost of one more logical cluster?  Or is it the number of resource definitions added to a typical logical cluster?  The text in the following bullet implies an answer, but it would be better if this bullet itself were clear enough on its own.  Perhaps saying something like "Orders of magnitude fewer resources (~ 50 resources) in a logical cluster than in a typical large, shared, multi-tenant cluster".

Author: Updated

* Inexpensive - nearly for free in terms of resource utilization & cost for an empty cluster
* Independent - install different versions of a CRD in each logical cluster (!!!)

> * Per-cluster administrative rights - each "owner" (person/team/group) of a cluster is a full admin

Reviewer: That's good, as far as it goes.  But since kcp introduces a higher level of organization, it also must involve higher level operations and thus higher level authorization issues.  What about those?

If I understand correctly, the compute clusters used by the workload service are a separate matter from the workspaces of kcp.  That itself raises some more authentication and authorization questions.

### Treat compute as a utility
* [Transparent multi-cluster](docs/investigations/transparent-multi-cluster.md) - run `kcp` as a control plane in front of your physical compute clusters for workloads, and let `kcp` determine how to schedule your workloads to physical compute clusters
* Dynamically add more **compute** capacity as demand increases - not just nodes, but entire Kubernetes clusters

> ### Massive scale

Reviewer: "massive scale" sounds interesting and challenging.  A few more words in this README on how it is being addressed would be welcome.

* 1,000,000 workspaces (logical clusters) in a single installation/setup

> * 10,000 organizations

Reviewer: "organizations" are not mentioned earlier nor explained anywhere in this doc.

### Embedded/low-resource scenarios?

`kcp` could be _useful_ for environments where resources are scarce, by limiting the number of controllers that need to run. Kubernetes' asynchronous reconciliation pattern can also be very powerful in disconnected or intermittently connected environments, regardless of how workloads actually run.

## What about a long-term vision?

For more detailed information, check out our [GOALS.md](GOALS.md) doc and our [docs directory](docs/).

## Is `kcp` a "fork" of Kubernetes? 🍴

_No._

`kcp` as a prototype currently depends on some unmerged changes to Kubernetes, but we intend to pursue these changes through the usual KEP process, until (hopefully!) Kubernetes can be configured to run as `kcp` runs today.

Our intention is that our experiments _improve Kubernetes for everyone_, by improving [CRD](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/)s and scaling resource watching, and enabling more, better controllers _for everyone_, whether you're using Kubernetes as a container orchestrator or not.

> Our `kcp` specific patches are in the [feature-logical-clusters-1.22](https://github.com/kcp-dev/kubernetes/tree/feature-logical-clusters-1.22) feature branch in the [kcp-dev/kubernetes](https://github.com/kcp-dev/kubernetes) repo. See [DEVELOPMENT.md](DEVELOPMENT.md) for how the patches are structured and how they must be formatted during our experimentation phase.  See [GOALS.md](GOALS.md) for more info on how we intend to use `kcp` as a test-bed for exploring ideas that improve the entire ecosystem.

Reviewer 2: 1.23

## What's in this repo?

- **`cmd`**
    - **`cluster-controller`**
        * Keeps track of physical `Cluster`s where workloads and other resources are synchronized

>         * Enabled by default in `cmd/kcp`

Reviewer 2: wondering how functional that is right now.

Author: The cluster controller embedded in kcp?

Reviewer 2: the binary

Author: Not 100% sure

    - **`compat`**
        * Checks compatibility between two CRDs and can generate the least common denominator CRD YAML if requested
    - **`crd-puller`**
        * Downloads CRDs from a cluster and writes them to YAML files
        * This functionality is included in parts of `cmd/kcp`
    - **`deployment-splitter`**
        * Splits a `Deployment` into multiple "virtual Deployments" across multiple physical clusters
    - **`kcp`**
        * The primary executable, which serves a Kubernetes-style API with a minimum of built-in types
    - **`kubectl-kcp`**
        * A kubectl plugin that offers kcp specific functionality
    - **`shard-proxy`**

>         * A server that provides a workspace index and sharding details

Reviewer 2: very WIP. Not doing anything useful right now.

    - **`syncer`**
        * Runs on Kubernetes clusters registered with the `cluster-controller`
        * Synchronizes resources in `kcp` assigned to the clusters

>     - **`syncer`**, which implmenents a transparent multi-cluster sync of resources to offer compute (i.e. to run pods and other workload types) to kcp workspaces using external Kubernetes clusters.

Reviewer 2: syncer twice

For more scenarios, see [DEVELOPMENT.md](DEVELOPMENT.md).

## This sounds cool and I want to help!

> Thanks! And great! You can reach us here, in this repository via [issues](https://github.com/kcp-dev/kcp/issues) and [discussions](https://github.com/kcp-dev/kcp/discussions), or:

Reviewer 2: point to good frist issues.
